# Trustworthy Prediction with Gaussian Process Knowledge Scores
This repository contains the code for our project on Gaussian process knowledge scores, which was accepted for publication at [EUSIPCO 2025](https://eusipco2025.org/). Knowledges scores are a new technique to quantify the confidence of a Bayesian model's predictions. You can find more information in our article preprint. 

> Probabilistic models are often used to make predictions in regions of the data space where no observations are available, but it is not always clear whether such predictions are well-informed by previously seen data. In this paper, we propose a knowledge score for predictions from Gaussian process regression (GPR) models that quantifies the extent to which observing data have reduced our uncertainty about a prediction. The knowledge score is interpretable and naturally bounded between 0 and 1. We demonstrate in several experiments that the knowledge score can  anticipate when predictions from a GPR model are accurate, and that this anticipation improves performance in tasks such as anomaly detection, extrapolation, and missing data imputation.

## Description
This repository contains Matlab code that implements knowledge score analysis for Gaussian process regression (GPR) models. Our main contribution is a simple function, `knowledge(gp,X)`, that computes knowledge scores for the GPR model `gp` for each location in the matrix `X` alongside the predictive mean and standard deviation. Computing predictions using this function calls the `predict(gp,X)` function that is native to Matlab, and then additionally computes the variance reduction scores for each prediction.
